# Project Synopsis

Microplastics are a major stressor for many organisms. With increasing microplastic accumulation in coastal environments, we wanted to understand how native crabs such as Hemigrapsus oregonensis are impacted by their presence. FISH 497C Tire Tread Team (2024) looked into the effects of microplastic accumulation in the stomach. Another way that microplastic accumulates in the bodies of crabs is through the gills (Watts et al. 2016). We explored how microplastic accumulates in the stomach and the gills and the impacts these had on oxygen uptake of H. oregonensis.We hypothesize that there would be accumulation of microplastics in H. oregonensis and that there would be a decrease in oxygen uptake. There were two trial groups (n=9) and a control group (n=20) over a two week study. The first group was fed a combination oyster and microplastic. We performed a lactate assay and a dissection on the individuals that survived to the two week time frame. The second group was fed only microplastic. We experienced a 75% mortality rate between the two trial groups with only one individual surviving from the fed group. For the lactate assays, we found significantly less lactate in the surviving fed individual than the average of the microplastic only group. The control had an even higher average than the microplastic-only group, refuting our hypothesis. Our study found that no MPs were found in the tissues of individuals from either group. Given that no MPs were found in the dissections of either trial group, MPs are unlikely to be the cause of the differing lactate concentrations. No significant physiological damage was observed in the presence of MPs, regardless if the subject had access to alternative forms of food or not. This shows that H. oregonensis and other crab species may not be as affected by this biological stressor as other types of organisms. However,this study conflicts with previous findings of studies investigating accumulation of MPs in the gills and stomach of crabs (FISH 497C Tire Tread Team, 2024; Truchet et al. 2023). More research is needed on both the accumulation of MPs in H. oregonensis and its effects on the oxygen intake of these crabs.
